# Differential-Privacy-for-DCMS
We have explored the feasibility of utilizing DP-based mechanisms, such as Laplacian and Gaussian mechanisms, to obfuscate the data of data subjects prior to sharing it with the Data Requester via the Data Controller.
Based on the available works on differential privacy frameworks such as local and global DP, we suggest that a DCMS can be used to map patient data management by hospitals (DCs) and the subsequent access of this data by researchers (DRs). In this setting, DSs can enjoy privacy while hospitals (DCs) can process and share sensitive data with DRs who need patient data for their research. By using DP in DCMS, DSs privacy can be maintained while allowing for the efficient processing and shaing of sensitive data.

**Our Findings regarding DP Implications in DCMS:**
– When the value of ϵ is increased, the amount of noise added by Laplacian and Gaussian mechanisms is reduced. This decrease in noise comes at the cost of decreased privacy protection provided by these mechanisms. However, noise reduction benefits the DR in data analysis. For example, if ϵ = 5, less noise is added compared to smaller values of ϵ = 1, resulting in more minor discrepancies between the noisy and original data. 1305
– When random noise is introduced to three attributes (age, gender, obesity) of patient data, both Laplacian and Gaussian mechanisms were used with the same value. Our findings indicate that the Gaussian mechanism is better than Laplacian, as it adds less noise, making the data more usable for researchers and maintaining the confidentiality of patient data attributes. For instance, when the same ϵ = 0.5 value is used for both mechanisms, the Laplacian mechanism adds excessive noise to the patient data attributes, such as age, gender, and obesity, while making data unsuitable for secondary tasks.
– As the value of ϵ is increased, there is a decrease in RMSE error. This states that the noise added to the data attributes is slightly reduced, resulting in a minor deviation between the original data and the perturbed data, resulting in lower privacy.
– Our findings suggest that for the Gaussian mechanism, adding moderate noise preserves patient data privacy and enables a researcher to analyze this data. And with Gaussian mechanism with lower values of ϵ also improves the RMSE values. Hence, choosing a concrete value of epsilon is a complex task. It requires more careful considerations, depending on the data one wants to pollute using the DP framework.
